[NIKAIDOU]
It's gone! Where'd it go?!
I can't find it! No!
What's wrong, Nikaidou?
[NIKAIDOU growls]
When I woke up,
my replacement hand was missing!
[laughs]
Somebody must've hidden it away.
Because you were being so noisy.
Do you need my assistance?
I can use my ueinkar to find it.
[NIKAIDOU]
Please do! Thank you very much!
[INKARMAT]
Hmmm...
I feel a strong sensation
coming from Koito Nispa.
[NIKAIDOU]
Huh?!
Uh...
[NIKAIDOU]
There it is!
You're amazing!
How did you know that?
So mysterious.
Oh, come on, even I
figured out it was you.
Inkarmat's powers are
incredible, Tsukishima!
She answers any and
all questions you have.
Honestly, it's a little scary.
[HAJIME] What in the world
are you chewing on?
Ikema root for protection.
It cost one yen and 20 sen.
Stop taking advantage of how
gullible Lieutenant Koito is.
You still don't believe me
at all, do you?
Fine, just let her perform
her magic on you,
and you'll change your
tune soon enough.
[HAJIME]
No, thanks, I'll pass.
It couldn't hurt to try, right?
Tsukishima Nispa, is there
anything you're looking for,
but haven't been
able to find yet?
Don't think that you can win me
over with your parlor tricks.
So despite the fact
that Tanigaki Nispa
is likely in Hokkaido,
he can't come here, right?
I suppose that would
make me a hostage.
Come on! The chopstick's
not coming out!
Looks like there's something
blocking the hole.
There's my youkan!
[TANIGAKI] I'm not the kind
of cold-blooded man
who could murder
Saichi Sugimoto.
That's if it's even
possible to kill someone
who already survived
a shot to the head.
And if I somehow kill him,
Asirpa's never
going to cooperate.
No. Lieutenant
Tsurumi would stop at nothing
to force every bit of
information out of her.
If I go through with this,
I will only bring
misery to Asirpa.
Would Huci be happy if I brought
her granddaughter back to her,
but she was an empty,
broken shell?
[TANIGAKI] One option is
to continue playing along.
I could pretend
to search for her
until the hunt for
the gold is over.
But that could take years.
[grunts]
And I wouldn't be able to see
Inkarmat or my newborn child
during that time.
My hands are tied.
Is my only choice
to track down Asirpa?
[IENAGA] You're around
nine months, right?
The baby could come any day now.
All those curves your
body's been blessed with.
Even if I ate you up, I could
never replicate them myself.
[INKARMAT grunts]
You remind me of my mother,
when she was carrying a child.
I wanted so badly
to have her beautiful form.
In my mind,
her swollen belly made her
the picture of perfection.
And when she finally
held her child,
she would be as pure
as the Virgin Mary.
Unfortunately,
she slipped on a staircase
and had a miscarriage.
That's why I want to help you
give birth to your child.
[INKARMAT chuckles]
That would make me happy.
How can I ever thank you
for all your kindness?
You could give me the placenta!
I've heard it's supposed
to be very nutritious!
[INKARMAT chuckles nervously]
Uh...
[INKARMAT]
Hmm.
I knew that you'd find
your way back to me.
[TANIGAKI]
If I asked around the hospital
where Inkarmat was moved,
Tsurumi would find
out I came here.
And he'd make sure she
was never unsupervised again.
I know I shouldn't
try to look for her.
Especially since
it could put her at risk.
But I just couldn't help myself.
Am I being selfish
in wanting to take her away?
Oh, the pervert's here.
[TANIGAKI grunts]
Ikema root?
[WOMAN 46A] She said to be
on the lookout for a pervert
with a big butt and huge chest.
He'd be like a hairy bear
sniffing around the hospital
searching for meat.
You're Tanigaki, right?
You must be.
My dad's in the hospital,
so I visit it almost every day.
This postcard is for you.
Inkarmat asked me to give it to
the pervy bear when he came by.
[TANIGAKI]
This is...
[TANIGAKI] I failed in
my mission to bring Asirpa
back to Huci.
And I'm useless to Tsurumi.
So I have to run.
Before that, I wanted to at
least be with you and our child.
No matter the danger.
I left that postcard hoping
you'd find your way here.
I don't care if it's dangerous.
As long as I'm with you.
I saw Sergeant Tsukishima
go to the bath.
He normally takes a while,
but we should leave now.
Wait. Do you hear that?
[footsteps thudding]
[TANIGAKI] Those are
a soldier's hobnailed boots!
[TANIGAKI]
The second floor.
[INKARMAT grunts]
[grunts]
[gasps]
[HAJIME] I guess you've
decided to turn your back
on Lieutenant Tsurumi
and the 7th Division.
You've only yourself
to blame, Genjiro Tanigaki.
[TANIGAKI gasps]
No, Inkarmat! Get off of me!
If this is truly
your idea of justice,
then you should kill me first!
[HAJIME grunts]
Run, now!
[gasping]
[HAJIME growls]
[IENAGA groans]
[TANIGAKI growls]
[gasps]
Gah!
[grunting]
[growling]
[gasps]
[growling, groaning]
[panting]
He won't be able
to move for two hours.
Use that time
to escape from here.
[panting]
You're wondering why...
Why would a self-obsessed
murderer like me
do something like this...?
Inkarmat...
She's so close
to becoming perfect...
Don't miss your chance
to witness it...
I beg you...
Thank you, Ienaga.
[TANIGAKI grunts]
Come on.
[grunts]
[whimpers]
[TANIGAKI growls]
Go, now.
[TANIGAKI] I don't understand
why Lieutenant Koito
didn't stop us.
[INKARMAT] I would often read
his fortune when he was confined
to his bed to heal.
Maybe that's the reason why?
[TANIGAKI] That wouldn't
be enough to move him.
Not the Koito I know.
--[gunshots]
--[TANIGAKI gasps]
[HAJIME growling]
[groans]
[TANIGAKI]
You're awfully quiet, Inkarmat.
Are you okay?
[INKARMAT whimpering]
What's wrong?
Does your stomach hurt?
[INKARMAT]
Being on horseback...
Sorry. I should've known.
We should be safer
now that we're out of town.
We can stop and rest for a bit.
Hold on a second,
I'll start to get a fire going.
[INKARMAT] Ah. Tanigaki Nispa,
your head is bleeding.
That's better. We need
to start moving again soon.
They'll be hot on our heels.
[INKARMAT gasps]
Shouldn't we
bandage up your leg?
Those last two shots
must've grazed me.
I just didn't notice it.
[gasps]
This is bad!
[HAJIME huffing]
[TANIGAKI grunts]
[HAJIME growls]
Inkarmat, you need
to get out of here!
Out the back, hurry!
[HAJIME snarls]
Gah!
[cracking]
--[bellows]
--[HAJIME groans]
[grunting]
[growls]
Tanigaki Nispa!
[TANIGAKI grunts]
[TANIGAKI] We only need
to go a bit further.
It's morning, but as long
as I have this rifle,
he can't risk getting close.
We can lose him once
we get to the mountains.
I know them better than he does!
--[gasps]
--What's wrong?
You hear him?
[INKARMAT grunts]
I think the baby is coming.
[TANIGAKI grunts]
[TANIGAKI]
After all you've done for us.
Forgive me.
[HAJIME growls]
He used the horse as a decoy
and went on foot.
Hang on, we're almost there!
I promise you're gonna be okay!
You can do this.
I'm right here with you!
Everything will be okay!
[huffing]
[huffing continues]
[TANIGAKI panting]
Huci. Sorry. I'm back.
We can't stay here for too long.
The village is being watched.
Don't worry about that.
There's only one man assigned
here, and my husband gets him
nice and drunk every night.
Afterwards, he doesn't even wake
up when Osoma steps on his face.
What's Huci doing?
[OSOMA'S MOTHER]
She's feeling around to see if
it's a boy or a girl.
If it's a boy, you must
deliver him face-down.
On the other hand, girls
have to come out face-up,
otherwise, they won't
live a long life.
And you can tell just from
touching her stomach?
Supposedly, it's all in
the size of their hip bones.
But only a few people can do it.
She says her personal god,
who dwells behind
her neck, tells her.
Huci has been helping women
give birth since she was 19.
She's a veteran ikoinkarmat.
Or midwife, as you'd call it.
In fact, she stepped in
during Asirpa's birth, too.
All right. Please help her.
I need to go.
Sergeant Tsukishima
knows about this kotan.
It's only a matter of time now.
He'll come.
I'll go stop him.
Stop, Tanigaki Nispa!
Don't fight him!
Don't worry. I'm immortal.
What are you talking about?!
Don't leave me!
--[HAJIME grunts]
--[gasps]
[groans]
Gah!
--[gasping]
--What happened?!
Please stop!
It's me you want!
You can kill me, but don't
hurt Inkarmat or the others!
Private Tanigaki.
I should've seen you were
walking down the wrong path
for a while now.
Back when you met her
and the old woman,
instead of returning
to the unit.
[gasping]
Tsukishima!
Hold on! That's enough!
Stop this!
I see you must've been
following me from afar.
Were you hoping
they'd actually escape?
Tell me, what's the point
of killing them?
We don't need these two.
There are other ways of finding
Asirpa without their help!
There's no harm in letting them
walk away from this.
[HAJIME]
Threats become worthless
if you don't follow through.
People start getting ideas.
I told you before
I'd kill you if you interfered.
Don't tell me you've
decided to betray
Lieutenant Tsurumi as well?
You have to pick a side,
Lieutenant Koito.
Has the knowledge that
the Lieutenant used you
and your father turned
you against the 7th?
Or are you still with us?
Put your gun down.
That's a direct order.
That said, I'm prepared to watch
both you and Lieutenant Tsurumi
with my own eyes until the end.
[HAJIME grunts]
[KOITO]
Tsukishima. That night...
You said that the people
who follow Lieutenant Tsurumi
will be saved, and that
everything was justified
for his dream.
I've been thinking about it.
I agree.
Even if I was tricked and used
for that purpose, I don't care.
I'm glad for it! But if the
Lieutenant has another goal,
then I want to see what it is!
And if at the end,
there is no justice to be found
in that dream?
I know the guilt and regret
of it all will kill me.
Don't you get it?!
That's why we have to let
the two of them live!
It's far too late for that!
I've killed so many people!
I've used them and
sent them to their deaths!
It's not too late!
[HAJIME] I gave up on
what was truly important.
I threw it away.
The only thing I have left
is fulfilling my duty.
Tsukishima...
Does your sternness come
from having to bear the weight
of what you discarded?
[HAJIME]
Tell me, Inkarmat.
Where is she...?
[groans]
Inkarmat!
[OSOMA'S MOTHER grunts]
The baby's about to come out!
Everybody help me!
You go heat up
a bunch of water!
You go gather up as much
straw as you can from nearby!
And you keep an eye on him!
[OSOMA'S MOTHER]
One more thing!
Get these from the other houses.
Noyaham. Gauze
made from sagebrush.
It stems bleeding
better than cotton.
Put the rasupakap
in the hot water.
That creates a disinfectant
that also helps lubricate
the birth canal.
Hang this tar strap
from the beam above!
She'll pull on it
to brace herself!
Put the straw on the
left side of the fireplace
and pile some old rags on it.
That's where she'll give birth!
[speaking in AINU]
--[INKARMAT whimpering, whining]
--[HUCI speaking AINU]
[panting]
Get inside! Right away!
Carry the mortars
to the entrance!
Nisu horipire!
This is a ritual we do
to ease difficult births,
called "making
the mortar dance"!
Keep rolling it!
[NARRATOR] Huci put gauze
underneath the sole of her foot,
and pressed it against
the pregnant woman's anus.
Traditionally, the Ainu people
would rotate the baby
during birth
depending on its sex,
using a technique
called "kemakokiru."
[INKARMAT panting, whining]
[screams]
[BABY wailing]
[INKARMAT chuckles]
You're incredible, Inkarmat.
Good job...
[INKARMAT] Do you want to
hold the baby, Tanigaki Nispa?
[gasps]
Oh, wow.
His dick is gigantic.
That's what's left
of the umbilical cord.
[TANIGAKI sobs]
So I've got a daughter...?
[sobs]
[HAJIME]
Wake up, moron.
[grunts]
I'll keep this a secret
from Lieutenant Tsurumi.
Head into town and take a week
to cool your head a little bit.
Once you're back,
continue to report
that nothing
unusual happened.
[gasps] You can count
on me, Lieutenant Koito,
I won't let you down!
[OSOMA laughing]
Oh, Tanigaki Nispa!
Osoma...
It's good to see you!
--Hey, Osoma!
--Huh?
[laughs]
[chuckles]
Lieutenant Koito.
Did you actually
mean what you said?
Or were you just trying to
convince me to put down the gun?
You can believe
whatever you'd like.
But I know one thing.
Lieutenant Tsurumi isn't
the kind of man who would
mindlessly lust after power.
He wouldn't be doing this
to enrich himself.
Especially not if
it meant sacrificing
everybody around him.
You of all people
must know something.
Any clues as to what
his real objective is?
He might not even have one.
Perhaps his goal is what he
says: to bury his comrades,
and ensure Japan's future.
As long as I've known him, he--
[gasps]
[HAJIME]
Finger bones.
Have you ever seen
those bones before?
What are you talking about?
Ah. Never mind, it's nothing.
[KOITO] Fighting and dying for
the sake of one's comrades
is the most noble thing
a soldier can do.
Right, Tsukishima?
Your stance towards Lieutenant
Tsurumi and his "salvation"
isn't healthy.
However, I'm going to believe
the best of him, regardless.
So, the only thing you have
to do is follow me, okay?
[HAJIME]
Hmm?
[KOITO]
Look! This is what I mean!
[HAJIME]
Ah... I don't get it.
[KOITO] I'll tell them
that you two managed to slip
through our fingers.
Make sure you head south so you
don't run into the others.
I don't know how
we could ever repay you.
Thank you so much.
[KOITO] Good luck, I wish
the best for you all.
[INKARMAT]
Tsukishima Nispa.
[HAJIME]
Hmm?
[INKARMAT]
For a brief moment,
I saw something with
my clairvoyance.
I'm good, thanks.
Looks like Huci saved me again.
Why is it always me?
[NARRATOR] Next time:
"Steamship"!